---
title: "Choosing or developing transport and logistics software? Here are some aspects to consider"
date: "2020-10-06T16:24:04.000Z"
template: blog
tags: Small Business
image: "./media/transport-and-logistics.jpg"
---

Mobility is one of the most important issues for people today, and due to this great demand companies have been innovating their products and services. Transport and logistics software is a great tool because it is used by people to order their cabs, program their departures, manage guided tours, etc. 

On the other hand, logistic management software is highly requested by companies, to be able to program and plan their shipments to any part of the world and supply the markets.  If you want to get deeper into this subject, check this post: 

<Br>

<title-2>Transport and Logistics Software: What You Need to Know</title-2>

<Br>

When developing a transport application you should consider several factors to ensure its success. This isn’t a simple task, but don’t despair! Below we show some of the factors to be taken into account when building a development software: 

1. One of the main factors for the development of your transport software is to think of a software that adapts to the sector and even more to your company. When we tell you that it must be adapted to any requirement we mean cold chains, safety standards for food handling, rules for transporting dangerous products, and even passenger safety. 

2. Another very important factor is that the software is versatile and works with various operating systems, allowing you to attract more customers and keep all your customers happy, of course always supported by cloud technology.  

3. Similarly, all information that is handled by users within your application or software must be carefully protected, since we are talking about names, times of arrival, transport data, quantities among others. So you must invest in a good system that is impenetrable.  

4. It’s equally important that your platform incorporates a good section for customer service because throughout the operations some issues may appear and your customers may have some doubts,  so you should have a platform capable of dealing with this potential problem.  This also improves the constant communication with the client.  

<Br>

<title-2>Transport Functions within a Company's Logistics Process</title-2>

<Br>

When developing your transport software, you must define very well with your team each of the functions that the software must fulfill to satisfy the needs of your customers. Some of the main functions it should have are:

1. One of the relevant functions is the management of information on transport company personnel such as drivers, salaries, shifts, and mileage, among others. 

2. Another important function is to document management in order to adapt your platform to each country since the laws change in each of the countries where you could possibly operate. The factors to which your platform must be adapted are the currency used, the clients, or the type of market, among others.  

3. Similarly, your platform must be able to manage every one of the tasks that make it possible for your company to function properly, without any problems. Among these tasks we have: insurance, directions for loading and unloading, dispatches from warehouse or distribution routes, tolls, fuel, pallet types, among other key elements for transport logistics.  

4. Your platform must contain a section, which allows you to project each shipment, and know-how profitable it will be and be able to provide accurate data, such as operating costs of each shipment.  

5. And not less important, the platform must be able to generate invoices, so that they can be viewed in real-time by customers, and sent to their emails. All these invoices generated by the system must be stored to keep an impeccable accounting process. 

<Br>

<title-3>Importance of Transport within the Logistics Process</title-3>

<Br>

The transport in a company allows the right management and productivity of many processes such as the supply chain, deliveries, etc. Debited to that, it’s common using software tools in this area.  With the goal of exemplify this, we share the next video: 

<Br>

<youtube-video id="TbHxegOc0zk"></youtube-video>

<Br>

<title-2>Types of Transport and Logistics Software</title-2>

<Br>

These are the three types of transport software: 

<Br>

<title-3>Software TMS (Transport Management System)</title-3>

<Br>

This software is usually found as an add-on to ERP or SCM( Supply Chain Management)  programs, but can be found as a separate system. TMS can be specialized in:  

- Planning of transportation strategies.
- Execution of the transportation plan.
- Follow-up of the logistic operations.
- Measurement of the performance of the logistic transport.

<Br>

<title-3>Software for the Design of Transport Routes</title-3>

<Br>

These types of software are specialized in managing and digitizing everything related to delivery routes. It must handle certain factors such as road conditions, traffic quantities, route mileage, vehicle load capacity, driver performance, etc. Sometimes this tool can be part of a TMS, SCM or ERP system, but it is also usually available as a separate transport software. 

<Br>

<title-3>Transport & Logistics ERP Software</title-3>

<Br>

ERP systems are the most complete type of transportation and logistics software available. As we have mentioned, an ERP can include within itself a TMS module and another one for the design of logistic routes. 

<block-quote>It's Time to Develop your Transport and Logistic Software!</block-quote>

We’ve reached the end of this article, and now you know the major role played by transport in people’s lives, and how with the help of technology we can move and help your company to be more efficient and improve its productivity, reducing its operating costs, and improving all logistics processes.


