---
title: 'Donâ€™t Procrastinate, Innovate'
date: '2022-08-29T20:02:25.398Z'
template: blog
tags: Small Business
image: './media/dont-procrastinate-innovate.png'
---

Your business is your livelihood, and, like you, it has to keep up with
the technology of the times. Today's post will shed light on a few
things you can do to innovate today so that you don't get left behind as
the world moves around you. There are many ways to move forward and
build a better business, including working with our team of software
developers to create custom programs to implement business process
management strategies and digital marketing tactics.

<br>

<title-3>Invest in a customer relationship management system.</title-3>

CRM is an essential tool for all businesses. This software allows you to
keep up with sales, access reports, and automate customer relationship
tasks.
[CobuildLab](https://www.cobuildlab.com/services/custom-customer-management-system/)
can build a customer relationship management system that helps your
organization thrive. Your CRM will offer many additional benefits,
allowing you to [keep up with customer
prospects](https://blog.hubspot.com/sales/benefits-of-crm)
and grow.

<br>

<title-3>Create automation opportunities through business process management.</title-3>

You can automate the processes in virtually all areas of your business.
Business process management, or BPM, can [improve
efficiencies](https://www.automationanywhere.com/rpa/business-process-management)
by helping you reduce hands-on time on activities, such as invoicing and
sending pickup reminders. Work with your employees and encourage them to
keep an eye on your BPM framework and speak up when they see areas that
might benefit from improvement.

<br>

<title-3>Skip the snail mail when it's time to invoice.</title-3>

As part of the BPM strategy, you can email invoices electronically. This
opportunity to create consistency within your [business
identity](https://www.venveo.com/blog/three-reasons-brand-consistency-is-so-important)
by utilizing an invoice template that matches your current marketing
materials. Do your research on invoice-generating software. Look for
software that allows you to customize everything from your logos and
fonts and download your custom template into your invoicing system.

<br>

<title-3>Keep track of your most valuable assets.</title-3>

Do you know how much inventory is on your floor right now? Do you know
how much it's worth? If not, you need a [custom inventory management
system](https://www.cobuildlab.com/services/custom-inventory-management-system/).
This helps you keep your eye on what you have, what you need now, and
what you can expect to use in the future. Knowing this information can
help you run a more efficient business and determine what sells and what
sits and collects dust.

<br>

<title-3>Offer remote work options to your employees.</title-3>

If you have yet to implement technology that allows your employees (and
yourself) to work from home, now is the time. Increasing evidence
recently written about on the HR Executive site shows that employees now
[value a flexible
schedule](https://hrexecutive.com/a-30k-raise-or-remote-work-forever-employees-want-remote/)
over even a hefty pay raise. Technology that can help you work from home
includes project management, workflow, and collaboration software.

<br>

<title-3>Use digital marketing.</title-3>

While [printed marketing
materials](https://www.ceotodaymagazine.com/2022/05/are-business-cards-still-important-in-2022/)
still hold relevance, the world is mainly digital. To reach a broader or
more targeted audience, you must utilize digital marketing channels,
including social media, QR codes, and video sharing. Remember here,
however, that you should also use promotional materials, such as
T-shirts, which Design Hill explains are a powerful way to [reach your
audience](https://www.designhill.com/design-blog/what-is-t-shirt-marketing-how-is-it-important-for-your-business/).

Innovation, whether sending automated invoices or switching from paper
to digital marketing, is a sign of growth. It can also serve as the
foundation upon which your business expands and reaches more people each
year. You don't have to implement new strategies all at once, but with
each passing change, you'll see your business adapt and thrive.

_Cobuild Lab can help you build your business one application at a time.
Call 786.991.3467 to [get
started](https://www.cobuildlab.com/services)._
